# Deep-neural-methodology-towards-real-time-posture-correction-through-determining-angular-separation
This model is based on BlazePose model developed by Google research. But the model uses Lab color space instead of RGB used originally in BlazePose
A methodology of real time pose estimation, which is believed to mitigate  many orthopaedical adversaries pertaining to wrong posture,has been illustrated throughout the paper. The whole methodology is framed keeping in mind the vast array of problems that may arise due to maintaining a wrong posture during exercising or performing  yoga, for a prolonged period of time. In this approach, towards this problem, the real dealings are  with precise ROI detection, identifying the joints of a human body and tracking down the motion of the body, all in real time. A major step towards converging to the solution is determining the angular separation between the joints and comparing them with the ones desired. Another important facet of the stated methodology is analysis of performance of the deep neural architecture in different camera positions. This is a major bottleneck for many different models that are intended to estimate posture of a person. This is because it  cannot be assumed that the person  during exercising or performing yoga or during any kind of gym sessions, will face the camera only at an fixed pre-determined potrayal direction . All these operations are done  efficiently, with an appropriate trade-off between time complexity and performance metrics of our model.The outcome of the proposed framework is believed to be highly robust and more aesthetically pleasing, contributing heavily towards the field of orthopedics, providing an opportunity to avoid body strain and unnecessary pressure on joints. 
